Now that we got the basics about navigation down that we're able to pass data around.
Let's take a step back and focus on the app we're building which is of course not looking that great.
And let's focus on these category items here in the grid.
We can tap them but obviously this is not an app.
You would like to use now to make that more usable in the categories screen here.
I'll actually wrap this item here.
Detachable opacity so this grid item and outsourced this into a separate component not something you
must do but something you might want to consider doing simply to keep your components leaner and cleaner.
Pour down the components folder I'll add a category grid tile jazz file the name is of course totally
up to you and in there we need to import react from reactive will certainly also need some stuff from
React Native to build a component in there namely you will need touchable opacity of course will need
the view will need text and we'll need a style sheet so that we can also styled as here and now we can
create the stack category.
Great style component here which receives some props we will need a style sheet here which I'll store
in the styles constant and of course as always we can thereafter export the component and inside of
this component function I'll return the j as X code I just cut out of the category categories screen
here so you're the touchable past you set up this grid item is set up but will have to change a couple
of things in a categories screen for example I'm setting up the grid item style here now we could leave
it here and kind of pass it into our grid tile and that emerged together there as you learned it but
I will simply set up all the styling in the component itself because we'll only use to category grid
tile well in the grid on the categories screen so I'll add the grid item style here to the style sheet
in this file.
Hence this works again the on press handler will not work yet we'll fix this soon and now we can go
back to the categories screen and of course import our component so import to category great style component
there from the components folder and there.
Group category grids tile and now simply well return this year when we render a new item.
Now of course like this it won't work.
We need to forward some data into the grids tall for it to work correctly there and we all need to make
sure that pressing this does navigate us now for debt I'll pass on the data which we need there which
is the title so that's item data dot item dot title and that's now a properly can use in the category
grid style and I also want to pass in a number prop which passes in a function which we then can execute
to navigate and I'll name this on select but you can name is whatever you want and in there I just want
to execute the code which I currently execute in on press so I'll cut this from here out of the category
grid tell moved us back into the categories screen into this function I passed two on select and all
we have to do is trigger on select from inside the category grid tall that's of course a normal pattern
you'd know from react so back in the category grid style on press can simply point at props on select
to trigger to function that's passed into on select prop.
Now the title I'm out putting here also can just be prop start.
Title because we're getting this title prop as a prop on our category grids tall we're passing it here
with Dad we split our component a little bit but of course now I also want to work on the styling a
bit more so back in the category grids tall I for example want to use to color I'm setting up because
every category gets a color stored in that color property here.
So would be nice used and hence we can forward that the critic category grid tall as well forward color
here you can of course named as proper whatever you want on the item dot color property.
And here it has to be dot color because we named the property color here in the model and now in a category
grid tile we can use that color to style this year.
So how do Eden style is how it should does look like by adding a style to the view we have inside of
the touchable opacity because the touchable opacity opacity component itself is invisible but the view
isn't there we can pass no object and set the background color here.
Cue props start color.
Well let's see how that looks like if we save that we wait for it to reload.
Doesn't look too bad but it's too small.
It should fill out the entire grid item and not just to the row with the text in there.
So to improve that I'll actually have this inline stall here but I'll merge this together into surrounding
object with no stalling configuration which I set up in the stall sheet and I'll named is container.
You can name it whatever you want.
Styles container more.
Pull out all the key value pairs in there as well so that we merge these styles here and now container
is a style sheet object we can add down there and then there we can set flex one to make sure that every
item fills out all the space it gets and now it is looks way better.
Now I'm still not 100 percent happy.
I want to add a little bit of a border radius here let's say of 10 to have some rounded corners.
And of course you can set up any styling you want here you prefer.
I will also set up a shadow color of black and a shadow opacity of dots to six and a shadow offset of
with zero height two and a shadow radius of ten and elevation of free elevation for Android.
If you'll remember because these shadow properties only affect us so that we get a little bit of this
three dimensional car look and of course as I mentioned you can styled as in whichever way you want.
Now in addition I want to make sure that this text here sits in the bottom right corner and has a little
bit of padding around it.
Of course a little bit of spacing around it so I'll add a little bit of padding here.
Let's say off 10 and now set justify content to flex and the Flex direction the container of course
is top to bottom because it's column so flex and we'll move this to the bottom here and now to all of
the move it to the right on the horizontal axis.
I set a line items to flex and as well and this moves that to the end of the Cross axis which is left
to right in a normal view where you didn't change to flex direction with that we get this look which
I'd say is better but of course the the text here the text styling could also change and a little bit
more padding might look good.
Maybe 15 but of course you can experiment with that and also one important side note in this app I'll
not focus on building a totally responsive experience here.
I'll try to keep this short and concise because the main focus of this module of course is navigation
hence all not optimized is for all possible screens and platforms.
This is something you can of course do as a practice.
I'll not do adhere to not unnecessarily bloat this module so I'll just set up some styling that looks
good on these emulators.
That being said a little bit more padding might make sense and I also want to style the title here.
Hence I'll add let's say title style here.
Set up in the style sheet.
Let's add it here and there.
I want to use my font family open Sands bold which I can use of course because I'm registering it here
in app J.S. so open sends bold is added now whips here and maybe also change the font size a little
bit to 20 to we save.
This does looks quite decent.
Now there's one last thing which I want to do.
On my category grid tall on the text here I'll set the number of lines to 2 so that any text that would
be longer than that actually just gets cut off which I think looks a bit nicer and last but not least.
You might notice that on Android for light and lovely does this on the left here because it's broken
into two lines to make sure that this is all on the right on the title here.
All set text a line to write to whips to write to forest is to be on the right.
So let's wait for that to reload.
And now that's looking the way it should.
Now that's not too bad here.
Now you might notice that the effect looks a bit strange if I tap I am here we get this strange extra
border around it.
Now one thing I will still do here which is totally optional but still all added here all at the platform
API and also add touchable native feedback to actually use the ripple effect instead of touchable opacity
if supported.
So here I'll have my touchable component which by default is touchable opacity.
But if platform the OS equals Android and as you learned early in the course the word Shine is greater
or equal than 21 then we know that touchable native feedback is supported.
So then I'll set touchable component equal to touchable native feedback like this.
Use touchable component here instead of touchable opacity.
And with that we should have a nice ripple effect on Android on ISIS.
We have the capacity of fact which we want.
And on Android we now have a ripple effect.
But styling is off now.
This however is something we can fix by adding extra view around this which receives our grid items
style instead of the touchable component here.
And with that we just need to add one extra styled property on the touchable component and set flex
one.
I'm doing it with an inline style here.
Quick and dirty you could add a separate style in the style sheet with dad it looks and feels the same
on ISIS.
And now also on Android ripple effect is stair.
Now it's not using our rounded corners though instead it renders a square or a rectangle.
And you also learned earlier how to fix stead to fix it.
All we have to do is on the grid item we at the border radius of 10.
And then we actually add overflow hidden to make sure that child items can't be rendered outside of
that wrapping view.
Which means that the ripple effect can go outside of that rounded box.
Now we have Dad look and that's the one adjustment I want to make here for different platforms.
And with that that doesn't look too bad I'd say.
Now of course you can tweak the look of dad you can tweak the font size and so on make it look really
good on your device as you you're testing.
I'm happy with this look and now it's really time to alter or render some recipes.
When we select a category here.